From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announced in
show number 555. In this
episode, Scott talks with Victor
Jaco about the use of
alcohol in the tech industry.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. We're going to
try something a little different
today. I'm talking with Victor
Jaco and he emailed me
actually, I think in may,
it's been a while we've
been going back and forth
discussing this about a podcast
where we would talk about
the culture of, of alcohol
that we see in the
tech community. How are you?
Sure I am doing wonderful
today, Scott and you're right.
It's it's been a while
coming, but I'm really glad
that you had me on
the show and I'm looking
forward to our conversation today.
Yeah. Now you regularly write
and speak on kind of
the, you know, the psychology
of design and the tech
culture, but also with regards
to the idea that tech
culture somewhat promotes alcohol use,
what do you, what do
you mean by that? Is
it just like having beer,
A company party? Well, yeah,
but I think it goes
beyond that. So part of
it stems from my background
and my history was alcohol,
which is, I was working
for a user focused design
firm, digital design, and I
became sober. And I realized
once I did how heavily
prevalent alcohol and promoting the
use of alcohol is in
design and tech. And what
I mean by that is
really that it's everything from
having the office keg and
the beer fridge that we
show off when we have
clients over or potential future
employees to the networking events
that we call happy hours
and host in places like
bars. And then even our
conferences, which we know have
in the past had problems
with, with drinking and the
behavior that can be associated
with that. And we call
them parties and we have
after parties where there's an
open bar that people don't
have to pay for the
actual monetary cost for alcohol.
And all of that serves
to create a culture that
really suggests, Hey, if you're
a part of us, you're
drinking, you're okay with it.
And I can only speak
from my personal experience, but
I know a lot of
times, you know, when we're
going to have a long
boring meeting that either cater
it with alcohol, or they
talk about the fact that
maybe afterwards we're going to
go have a happy hour
to celebrate that we survived
the meeting or have a
happy hour that we landed
a new client. And so
what I realized was I
still wanted to participate and
be a part of things,
but I couldn't do the
drinking anymore. And that was
a personal decision. But the
way people talked about drinking
around me was, was something
that I had to then
add on to the fact
that I was trying myself
to stop drinking at the
problematic level, that I'd become
a drinker. So it's just
you and I on the
podcast. And I'm, I try
to act as an advocate
or as the, you know,
in the role of the,
of the people who are
listening. And we realized that
this is a complicated and
intersectional conversation, so I can
offer my actual thoughts and
how I feel and how
I, you know, how I
personally deal with this situation.
But then I will try
to also kind of offer
some of the perspectives that
I imagine that people who
are listening may also be.
So I would ask that
you and that people bear
with us as we try
to explore this, this topic,
I'm open to exploring it
as deep as you want
to go, and I'm excited
to do it. So I'm,
I'm a, I guess they
call it a Teetotaller. I
don't drink, but I don't
drink for any particular reason
other than I just never
got around to it. The
crowd that I hung out
with in school didn't drink.
I don't drink. And now
I feel like I'm kind
of on a roll, you
know, I'm in my forties
and I never got around
to it. So why start
now? So I, and, but
I also come from a
place of, of some privilege
in the sense that I'm
a, I'm a, I'm a
man with a job. And
I don't particularly feel like
I've felt pressured to drink
in order to keep my
job. But I have heard
from people in the community
that who don't drink or
may not necessarily be super
secure in their job, that
they feel they need to
go to these parties and
participate in these parties. And
at the end, you know,
and then they're pressured to
drink alcohol. I haven't seen
that, but is that if
do people do that? Well,
I think that when you
talk about pressure, some of
that is internal. And so
people might feel a certain
pressure that they're putting on
themselves while other people who
are fine with alcohol don't
necessarily realize that's what they're
doing. So I think that's
one thing, but I have
heard. And when I've given
presentations at events or conferences
specific to the topic of
alcohol have often had audience
members either share with the
whole audience or afterwards that,
you know, they've been put
in situations. And it seems
to be particularly females who
feel like they need to
drink to stay a part
of the in crowd where
they're working or the Dave
even been publicly called out
for not being fun for
not participating in the drinking.
And if we're talking about
creating an atmosphere of inclusion,
where we want people, regardless
of whether they drink or
not to feel welcome, then
I think that that becomes
a problem. If you don't
have an issue with alcohol,
that's fine. And you have
to understand that everybody has
their own individual relationship with
alcohol. And it's not really
on any one of us
to determine whether or not
it's right for someone to
be drinking. And if someone's
choosing to drink, it really
shouldn't be an issue because
it's not the kind of
thing that becomes then offensive
or overlaps into, into being
your problem. If I'm choosing
not to drink, it's actually
because I'm aware of my
limitations or there might be
a thousand other reasons which
are really none of anyone's
business or related to medical
conditions related to mental health
and related to religion. And
so where, where I find
it, a problem isn't that
individuals are drinking or that
individuals want to drink and
have a good time. But
when it becomes, I want
to ask you, when you
show up to an event
why you're not drinking, then
it borders on what I
think is exclusive, an environment
that we create. And in
tech, I think we've sort
of been called out for,
for doing that in other
ways already. And so I
think just by talking about
it is one step towards
raising awareness because the alcohol
is frequent and prevalent that
we might make assumptions. Everyone's
okay with this. And everyone
wants to have, you know,
the joke about let's go
get, go to the bar
after work, because it's been
a hard day. And like,
maybe I still want to
go to the bar with
you, but don't worry about
it. If I don't order
alcohol Right now, when people,
some people may have made
it five, six minutes into
this podcast, and they may
already think that we are
being a, you know, quote
unquote, politically correct, or, you
know, to, you know, everyone
needs to just relax. If
you don't want to drink,
don't drink. What's the big
deal. Right. People may be,
be thinking that. But I
think that that point of
being inclusive or exclusive, I
think is a good one.
And I don't feel like
we are trying to be
politically correct. I think that
you're proposing just trying to
treat people like human beings.
Like if, if we went
to a, a, a, a
pig roast, which is a
thing, and I didn't eat
pork, right. Like, you know,
there's, I've been to pig
roasts and like, Hey, we're
gonna roast a pig. Oh,
I don't eat pork. You
don't eat pork. That's weird.
Why would he do that?
Like just justify your decision.
I'm just not into it.
That's just not my thing.
That is a way of
excluding well, simply saying, Oh
right, well, we have, you
know, we have hotdogs or
we have, we have something
else for you and then
simply calling it what it
is. Right. And I agree
with that. And I think
that I don't look at
it as being politically correct,
because I'm not trying to
make the argument that alcohol
shouldn't be a part of
things. But what I am
trying to argue is that
we should be aware that
it's not cookie cutter. So
just like some people don't
eat pork for a multitude
of reasons. And we shouldn't
think that that's an issue
by accommodating them, that having
decent, soft drinks available at
an event, calling something, not
calling something, you know, a
frat party or a happy
hour where the assumption is
everyone's going to get part
of the open bar. And
part of the process of
just being fitting in is
going to be to drinking
beer. That that's something we
can easily make small shifts
in our language and how
we talk about events. And
even how we plan events.
You know, the company that
I work for has tried
to put a little more
thought into sayings after I've
been more vocal about my
issues. And some of the
things that we've come up
with can still include alcohol.
Like for example, we have
a company softball team, but
the purpose isn't that we
go out and drink as
much as we can. The
purpose of the event is
to go play softball. And
yes, some people drink and
they are the ones who
are choosing to do that.
And the people like myself
who choose not to drink,
there are other options available,
but I'm not feeling like
I'm the only person staying
around, not drinking. And so
specific to like my situation
where I was dealing with
sobriety and the issues that
come with realizing that, Hey,
you have a problem with
drinking. I felt like I
couldn't expose that side of
me to people because of
the fear that you, that
comes along with that. Well,
if I'm drinking a beer
tomorrow, after telling you I
have an alcohol problem, what
might that mean for my
job and how people look
at me, but at the
same time, somebody who doesn't
have that issue at all
might feel completely comfortable in
an environment where people are
giving them a hard time
about not drinking, but, you
know, take yourself. I can't
speak for you. But if
you, if someone were like,
Oh Scott, why aren't you
drinking? And you just say,
I don't drink. Like, that's
the end of the story
for someone who might feel
that, like, that's not the
end of the story, because
maybe a day before they
were the one who was
drinking and they were taking
it too far, that that
can become a large barrier
to participation. And when we
do things and I'm coming
at it from more of
a consultant point of view,
where we don't have a
product where I work, we
serve other firms that do
have products and we help
them with their design and
their development. But we often
go out to happy hours
and dinners with our clients
and potential clients. And I
want to be a part
of that or somebody else
who might not, Why don't
you just say I don't
drink. And then is that
not the end of it?
Well, unfortunately it's not always
the end of it. I
think that I'm playing, we're
playing, no, the devil doesn't
need an advocate, but let's
bounce it back and forth
a little bit here. Right.
I've been in the business
now, 25 years. I've never
drank. It's actually funny. Like
I don't drink, I don't
even know what alcohol tastes
like. And I've for 25
years from being 20 years
old to being 40. And
on, I just said, no,
I don't drink. And it,
no one's ever pressured me.
Is that because of who
I am because of gender.
And, and, and, or is
that an age or is
that, And are there people
who, who, if they get
pressed hard on that? I
mean, in, in some ways
I'd be guessing to say
why it is that you
specifically don't feel that way,
but I can tell you
from my own experience and
from talking with other people,
that part of it is
definitely that if you haven't
had the problem with it,
then you might not feel
like, Oh, the spotlight's on
me when I'm not drinking
or interested. There's some reason
that people are going to
know I've gone from being
the fun guy at the
party to the teetotaler or
whatever the driver guy. Right.
And so I think there's
that level of aspect. But
then I have found that
people can be very juvenile
about alcohol and alcohol consumption.
And, you know, Scott, unfortunately
it seems to happen more
and more as people consume
more and more alcohol. And
so I have been put
in situations where, especially when
I first became sober, I
did go from the guy
who always drank way too
much to drinking nothing. And
I was proud of myself,
but I wasn't ready to
expose that part of me
to my colleagues. And we
would wine and dine clients
till late hours. And I
was fine drinking all the
Perrier, all the seltzer water
that I could get my
hands on at the bar
and being a part of
the conversation. But yeah, I
had some people and some
of them were in management
positions who would always pester
me and say, okay, why
aren't you drinking? And at
that time I decided I
was going to use the
excuse. My wife was pregnant
and I was just being
supportive of her. And so
then the conversation turned to,
well, I bet you just
can't wait until that's over.
And we can't wait to
take you out drinking after
that's done. And it's like,
these are not the conversations
that I want to have.
And when I did come
out and actually write and
talk about my experience, these
very people came up and
apologized to me and said,
Oh, you know, I have
family members that have this
situation. You know, I would
have never said these kinds
of things to you had
I known. And to me,
I accept there. I accepted
the apology and I understood
at the time, even that
it was all supposed to
be in good fun, but
I also think it never
had to happen because it
was never, it never should
have been a big enough
deal. If somebody is not
drinking, that's zero in terms
of being a big deal.
And if you're paying for
it, it's actually a better
deal for you as the
one paying for alcohol, that
somebody is not consuming it.
So let me, let me
try to, let me ask
you this. I'm going to
take a chance here and
give you a possible analogy
to something that relates to
me. And you tell me
if this relates at all.
Okay. So if you, if
you and I are standing
next to each other, you
can't look at either one
of us and tell that
you had a problem with
alcohol and you can't tell
that I'm a type one
diabetic wearing an insulin pump
and a half dozen different
implanted systems to keep me
alive. I was traveling in,
you know, we look competent
when you look at us,
right. I was traveling in
choices. When people look at
me, maybe he's right. Yeah.
I can kind of rough
looking. I was traveling in
China, it was working with
another person. We were giving
a workshop and I'm traveling
overseas. I'm managing my blood
sugar. I'm dealing with time
zones. It's, it's a, it's
an internal struggle that I'm
not talking about with people.
Right? And then the day
before the workshop, the in
person I was going with
says he wants to go
and try some really crazy
food. He wants to try,
you know, local native, you
know, Chinese food, you know,
squid or Callum or something
that I couldn't do. And
I said, you know, I
saw that there's a subway
sandwiches across the street. I
know subway. I know how
much insulin I need to
take. I know that if
I eat subway tonight, I
will be successful at the
workshop tomorrow. I know that
if we go to eat
something new and unusual, you're
going to love it. And
you're going to have fun.
You're a foodie, but I
may spend all night long
dealing with that. The outcome
of that, I didn't really
want to go and explain
how diabetes works, how my
blood sugar works. The fact
that food isn't a joy
for me. It is fuel.
I just want to go
to subway. I want to
eat my sandwich. I want
to do an amazing workshop.
But the pestering from both
the individual and the, the,
the, the, the people around
them was just incessant. And
then I feel like I
gotta go and make a
big deal out of it.
And I'm a square. And
then they all go off
and have a great time.
And I sit alone at
subway. You know what I
mean? Yeah. That is kind
of what I'm hearing you
feel. No, I think that
you nailed it. I wanted
to find a way to
disagree with you somewhere or
add to it. But I
think that's a pretty dead
on analogy. This the thing
that's wrong with you, isn't
visible. And it really, isn't
a thing that you want
people to make a big
deal about. In fact, it
makes it worse when they
do. Okay. And, and the
fact that, you know, you
didn't want to, you don't
want to get into talking
about it and describing it
is like, it's not something
that I want to talk
about. It doesn't make it
better. It doesn't make it
worse. It makes it inconvenient.
And it makes me feel
like I need to explain
something to you. And you
know, now then imagine that
I don't have a problem
because I can't control myself,
which, you know, some people
argue is, or is not
a disease, but I have
a pregnancy that I don't
want to tell you about,
or a mental condition that
I'm taking. Some medication that
doesn't mix well with alcohol.
Why would I ever explain
that to you in a
way that, you know, especially
if it's a more collegial
relationship, but I actually say
that you shouldn't even ask
your friends about this kind
of thing until they're ready
to talk to you about
it, because it is a
very personal decision to make
yourself exposed like that and
say like, this is my
situation. And this is something
that has impacted my life
to the point where I've
decided to stay away from
alcohol. Okay. So I'm hearing,
you know, we hear it,
we hear it, you know,
buzzwords or terms like diversity
and inclusion. I prefer the
word inclusion. It seems to
me like, you're just arguing
for, let's just try not
to exclude people on necessarily.
Yeah. And I think that
when I give my presentation
that I've given at conferences,
and when I talk about
it, the ideas that I
have for helping the situation,
aren't stop drinking, stop providing
alcohol. Don't ever talk about
alcohol. Those I think are
actually the wrong solutions because,
Hey, I don't think it
would work at all. I
mean, prohibition work for a
reason, but B I don't
think that the problem isn't
on the people drinking to,
to solve it. But it's
simple things like if you're
going to have an event
and it's going to be
at a bar, or it's
going to have alcohol served
via explicit in the invitation
that soft drinks will be
available as well, because that
does two things. It tells
the person like me, there
will be selection for me
there at the event, but
what it does beyond that
is it says, and I'm
welcome. I'm welcome to the
point where you've specifically said,
this event has alcohol, but
it also will have non-alcoholic
options. Meaning I want everybody
to be there, regardless of
whether they're going to consume
alcohol. When you make it
such a focus on the
open bar and the opportunity
to drink heavily, that becomes
a situation where anyone who
is afraid of being confronted
over, why they're not drinking
or anyone who's afraid of
possibly picking up a beer
and breaking their sobriety. If
that's their situation, they're going
to be less likely to
think that's an environment I
want to put myself into.
And if it's something where
you're entertaining clients, and you're
making business decisions, it's really
exclusive in a negative way
to put someone in a
situation where they're like, do
I want to be perceived
as a team player and
understand what, what decisions and
conversations took place at two
in the morning? Or do
I want to stay at
home where I know I'll
be safe, but then I'll
be looked at as the
person who doesn't participate or
doesn't come out and enjoying
the team after. Yeah. I've
always had, you know, that
there's the concept of FOMO,
FOMO, fear of missing out,
right. You know, not, not
drinking in high school. And
college did give me a
certain amount of FOMO, you
know, like, Oh, I missed
that. They're doing something amazing.
And, you know, typically I
hear that really amazing stuff
doesn't necessarily happen just because,
you know, you went out,
but you definitely don't want
people to feel like they're
not a part of a
part of the team because
of that. And, And I
think that when it becomes
something where it happens frequently,
it can become this mystery
to other people. Oh, why
don't you do this? And
it becomes, it can become
a bigger deal than it
really ever needs to be.
Right. Exactly. Like, and I
don't need people commenting on
whether I'm going to eat
that Cupcake. Right. Have you
noticed it doesn't ever eat
cupcakes? What is wrong with
him? Well, and that's another
really interesting point. So trying
to, you know, maybe we,
maybe this analogy did work.
Like I appreciate that you
were looking for a reason
to, to disagree, but I,
I worked at an office
once with another young woman
who was diabetic, but she
asked me to keep it
a secret because she was
afraid that the office would
consider her possibly weak or
not send her on trips
for fear that her medical
problem would become a business
problem. And that shocked me,
but it is in fact
her right. To do that.
Sure. Yeah. And I've thought
about that in my own
situation, which, so I worked
for a very small ish
firm, you know, 50 or
less people. And we were
acquired a few years later
and I now work for
like a couple hundred thousand
person firm. And I've thought
like, what if I'm looked
at in a way where
I could I'm damaged goods
that they wouldn't want to
send, if they have a
big client that they know
loves to go out and
have big parties at the
bar like that, doesn't, it's
definitely not a situation I
want to be in, prefer
to be in, but I
do put myself in those
situations. And it's because I'm
comfortable enough with the part,
my relationship that I've developed
with sobriety and was alcohol
that I know that I
can do that. But like
you said, if your colleague
who, you know, didn't want
to be perceived as weak,
that's the same way. I
think some, some of us
who have issues with alcohol
feel like I'm okay. I
don't, I don't want you
to worry about me. I
don't want you to not
give me an opportunity because,
Oh, you know, Victor, he's
made it clear. He has
a problem with alcohol that
we don't want to have
him hang out with certain
clients that, that really love,
enjoy drinking or whatever. So,
you know, we did this,
we do inclusivity training at
my company. And there was
this really interesting video where
there was one of the
people in the, in the,
in the video and that
the gender isn't specific had
two young kids. And so
they weren't in the room.
And one of the managers
said, Oh, well, we shouldn't
send so and so on
this trip because they have
young kids at home and,
and that's, you know, and,
and the implication was having
young children would hold them
back. Right. That's not, that's
not that person's call exactly
right. And it's, that is
a way of excluding them
as opposed to letting them
be adults, just as if
I said, Oh, well, you
know, I've got, I've got
kids. So I can't work
the weekend as opposed to
a single person who, what
their weekend doesn't matter. So,
you know, regardless of situation,
when work is over, we
should have our free time.
We own, we deserve that.
And we should be able
to go to events and,
and feel comfortable and safe
regardless. Right. And my argument
is that also I can
be as social as anyone
who's drinking. I can, I'm
the guy who once the
coldest bottle of fizzy water
and I'll sit in a
bar scenario, talking with people
and I don't have to
have that added alcohol. In
fact, what it means is
I'm going to wake up
and be productive for you
the next morning. So, okay.
Just like your conference scenario
or your workshop scenario, right.
You sure you could sit
there and eat all the
exotic food you wanted, but
then you'd pay for it
the next day. And then
that's not the situation you
want to put in yourself,
man. Exactly. Okay. So then
let's try to put our
selves in the mind of
the listener. Who's who's thinking
well, okay. Maybe what Victor
and Scott are saying is
no hard liquor, but you
know, beer, how, how can
beer be a problem? Right?
Like beer never got anyone
in trouble, wine, open bar
for wine drink tickets. What
about drink tickets? Well, I'm,
I'm actually Fine with my,
this is my own personal
opinion, but I think that
having alcohol at events is
still fine and having drink
tickets is, is fine. In
fact, maybe it's even better
if you have tickets, because
that suggests that there's some
level of limit that you're
willing to put out for
free as a company, or
at least you're going to
attach some accountability to people
tracking how much alcohol they're
consuming. I personally struggled with
veer more than anything else.
And there, whether the alcohol
content is the same or
not, you can obviously drink
enough beer, that it has
the same effect as whether
you were drinking whiskey or
vodka or something harder. I
just think that when you're
having so in an office
setting where you have like
an open keg or something,
you're asking people to be
responsible and you're making some
assumptions, which is the day
you're not going to make
poor choices, but at the
same time, your putting yourself
out there by saying, I'm
going to have this perk
or fringe benefit, whatever of
having free alcohol readily available.
But what are you doing
to then either ensure that
it's being consumed responsibly or
making sure there's other options
available? And I can give
you a real scenario where
I work. Once we were
acquired, the big, the larger
company said, no, you will
not have an open keg.
You will not have access
to alcohol. And they, they
didn't have an issue that
it was us who had
access to it, but they
didn't want it to be
a liability in the eyes
of if there was ever
anybody who was, was on
the premises, who wasn't going
to be of age or
anything like that. What they
ended up doing though, was
that they got us a
tab at a local bar
and they got us a
tablet, a local coffee shop,
and both tabs open at
one o'clock in the afternoon
every day, every day, since
this happened, there is a
line of our people from
the coffee shop back to
the office just about, and
that's on a daily basis.
And what it says to
me is that what people
are doing with the alcohol
represented the open keg or
whatever it was a community.
And Hey, take a break,
have a beer with each
other. Well, now the coffee
is doing that and people
are voting with their feet.
And every day it's a
very strong vote of, you
know, one o'clock, there's like
the great migration. We all
go grab coffee. We sit
in groups and chat. We
bring it back to the
office and chat. And it's
accomplishing the same thing that
I think the alcohol was
meant to accomplish in some
way, which was creating a
community, allow suggesting to people
it's okay to not just
be nose to the grindstone
here. You can have a
beer with your colleague. And,
and what it does do
though, is it allows people
who are not interested in
the beer to also have
an option and to have
the conversation and participate with
a drink in their hand
that they're more comfortable with.
So what about Going all
the way to the other
direction then? And just simply
having no alcohol, like we
just declare as a culture
that it's just not what
we're doing, but I was
in Paris and I made
that comment to someone recently
and they looked at me
like, I was like, it
was completely insane because wine
is such a fundamental part
of their culture. What could
this be done in? Is
it a country by country
or even state by state
kind of a thing where
it's just like, well, alcohol
is always going to be
a part of San Francisco,
but maybe in the Midwest
less. So Agree. I mean,
I've talked to people who,
you know, for example, a
conference in Utah would, is
definitely, is going to not
have alcohol. Right. And you
know, I'm going to one
in may. And I, it's
not that they're trying to
be more accommodating for me
or for anybody that's their
culture. But then I've heard
from people who are in
the South where the culture
is more of you don't
do your drinking, your heavy
drinking in public, that, that
when they do have their
conferences, it turns into a
situation where people who aren't
as used to drinking a
lot, then start to, and
it can turn sour. I
guess I would say that
my argument isn't necessarily the
shift towards removing the alcohol,
because I think that's a
really uphill battle. And what
I would want to do
would be just make it
much less of an issue
and less of a focus
in terms of this is
how we socialize. This is
how we entertain. This is
how we promote who we
are. And often wrongly call
it our culture, which, you
know, it's a keg or
a bottle of hard liquor
that people can have access
to is an artifact of
a culture that says, you
know, these types of things
make us who we are,
but it doesn't make you,
it doesn't make your culture.
So, you know, again, in
the situation with my company,
remove the keg, insert coffee,
and the culture stayed just
fine. In fact, I think
it got stronger. So it's
really, I think that I
asked people who organized conferences
and events and workplaces to
say, what are we trying
to accomplish with the alcohol?
And are there other ways
of doing this? Are there
ways of making it even
broader by including something else
or thinking outside of the
box? And that's what I
like to see. And that's
what I encourage people who,
who do plans things to
actually think about, what do
I want to achieve with
this? If I took the
alcohol out of the equation,
would it makes the situation
less enjoyable? If so, why
do people need to get
drunk or have alcohol to
tolerate this situation that I'm
putting them in? Hey, B
you know, what could I
do with that money that
I'm spending on alcohol for
other things that would make
a situation or an event
or a work setting enjoyable
for everybody, regardless of whether
they can consume or not.
Yeah, I definitely, I like
that. I R I mean,
I feel like I heard
you say that from a,
from a professionalism perspective and
from a company perspective, it's
not a reasonable thing to
say that alcohol is a
part of our company culture,
you know, being social is,
or spending time with each
other and, you know, talking
and, you know, being out,
being together outside of work
and team building, those are
all cultural things, but one
shouldn't bake in alcohol, into
their company court culture, any
more than they should say,
you know, pork is a
big part of our culture
here at the company, or,
you know, weed, we all
smoke weed at the end
of the day, or, you
know, you know, there's a
slippery slope there. Right. Right.
No, I agree with that.
Interesting. Cool. Well, do you
have anything else to, to
give to the conclusion? What
is the takeaway? What is
the, what is the person
listening to this podcast? What
should they do at their
company when they, when they
walk away from the show
share? So if you're a
listener, Regardless of what your
personal relationship with alcohol is,
I would just ask that
you think about the fact
that not everybody consumes alcohol
and experiences at the same
way. And some people choose
to completely not experience that,
and it doesn't make it
a bad thing. It's just
different. And the personal ask
I would make would be
to simply never ask somebody
why they're not drinking and
that that's on the personal
level. And on the broader
level, it would just be,
if you have an office
setting where alcohol is openly
available, or if you have
a, a group or an
organization that plans events and
alcohol is often the focus
be more mindful of what
are you doing to make
sure that somebody who might
be your colleague, and this
is a scenario often pose
to people is, you know,
I started writing successfully after
I became sober. I wrote
a book after I became
sober. My personal life was
straightened up after I became
sober. You pop, but everybody
was surprised that this happened
because nobody knew I was
struggling with alcohol. You might
be sitting next to somebody
who you like a lot,
who you call a colleague
and they might be struggling
with, or have had this
struggle in their past. What,
what by simply saying, how
are we accommodating somebody who
might not want to be
drinking alcohol, but still wants
to succeed and reach their
full potential? Are we making
sure that we say things
like this event will contain
non alcoholic beverages? Are we
doing things that just make
it obvious on the surface
that it's not all about
trying to be drunk and
get drunk and leading to
a scenarios that might make
people too uncomfortable to show
up or too uncomfortable to
stick around? Very cool. Well,
thanks for coming on the
show for being public about
your, your opinion around this
issue. And I appreciate, I
appreciate you, and I appreciate
the audience for coming along
with us on this, this
discussion. Thanks, Scott. And I
hope that, you know, if
you hear good things or
bad things that at least
keeps moving the conversation forward
and raising awareness, and that's
my hope for the whole
thing. And are you, are
you Victor Jaco on Twitter
as well? Yes, I'm at
victory Jaco and feel free
to follow me or shoot
me a message on Twitter.
And also you can email
me@victorjacoatgmail.com. Very cool. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes, and we'll see you
again next week.